Header.md, before:

---
title: Sovereign Cloud Stack Training Course
author: |
  [International Telecommunication Unit](https://itu.int/) (ITU)  
  Place des Nations  
  1211 Geneva 20 Switzerland
thanks: |
  License: [CC-BY-SA-4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/deed.en)  
  Material has been prepared by Kurt Garloff, [S7n Cloud Services GmbH](https://garloff.de/s7n/) for
  the ITU due to collaboration in the [govstack](https://govstack.global/) project.  
  Thanks for contributions to [dNation s.r.o](https://dnation.cloud/),
  [VanillaCore GmbH](https://vanillacore.net/), [OSISM GmbH](https://osism.tech/).  
  A lot of material was prepared during the [Sovereign Cloud Stack](https://scs.community/) project
  at the [OSBA](https://osb-alliance.de/) by the SCS community, with funding from the
  [German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action](https://bmwk.de).  
  [Sovereign Cloud Stack](https://sovereigncloudstack.org) and SCS are protected trademarks by the
  OSBA in most countries.
copyright: ITU
date: 2025-07-09
license: CC-BY-SA-4.0
documentclass: book
toc: true
toc-depth: 2
lof: true
# lot: true
colorlinks: true
numbersections: true
secnumdepth: 1
#  - \newcommand{\sectionbreak}{\clearpage}
header-includes:
  - \usepackage{titlesec}
  - \usepackage{pmboxdraw}
  - \usepackage{pifont}
  - \usepackage{newunicodechar}
  - \newunicodechar{✓}{\ding{51}}
  - \newunicodechar{✗}{\ding{55}}
  - \newunicodechar{└}{\textSFii}
  - \newunicodechar{─}{\textSFx}
  - \newunicodechar{├}{\textSFviii}
  - \newunicodechar{│}{\textSFxi}
  - \usepackage{fancyhdr}
  - \pagestyle{fancy}
  - \fancyfoot[CO,CE]{\small\emph{SCS training docs (c) 2025 ITU, S7n, CC-BY-SA-4.0}}
  - \fancyfoot[LE,RO]{\thepage}
---

Commit message:

Build last chapter. Add logo to front page.
Signed-off-by: Kurt Garloff <kurt@garloff.de>

Header.md, after:

---
title: Sovereign Cloud Stack Training Course
author: |
  [International Telecommunication Unit](https://itu.int/) (ITU)  
  Place des Nations  
  1211 Geneva 20 Switzerland
thanks: |
  License: [CC-BY-SA-4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/deed.en)  
  Material has been prepared by Kurt Garloff of [S7n Cloud Services GmbH](https://garloff.de/s7n/) for
  the ITU following good collaboration in the [govstack](https://govstack.global/) project.  
  Thanks for contributions to [dNation s.r.o](https://dnation.cloud/),
  [VanillaCore GmbH](https://vanillacore.net/), [OSISM GmbH](https://osism.tech/).  
  A lot of material was prepared during the [Sovereign Cloud Stack](https://scs.community/) project
  at the [OSBA](https://osb-alliance.de/) by the SCS community, with funding from the
  [German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action](https://bmwk.de).  
  [Sovereign Cloud Stack](https://sovereigncloudstack.org), SCS and its logo are protected trademarks by the
  OSBA in most countries.
copyright: ITU
date: | 
  2025-07-09  
  <br/>   
  ![SCS logo](scs-bw.png){width=200}
license: CC-BY-SA-4.0
documentclass: book
toc: true
toc-depth: 2
lof: true
# lot: true
colorlinks: true
numbersections: true
secnumdepth: 1
#  - \newcommand{\sectionbreak}{\clearpage}
header-includes:
  - \usepackage{titlesec}
  - \usepackage{pmboxdraw}
  - \usepackage{pifont}
  - \usepackage{newunicodechar}
  - \newunicodechar{✓}{\ding{51}}
  - \newunicodechar{✗}{\ding{55}}
  - \newunicodechar{└}{\textSFii}
  - \newunicodechar{─}{\textSFx}
  - \newunicodechar{├}{\textSFviii}
  - \newunicodechar{│}{\textSFxi}
  - \usepackage{fancyhdr}
  - \pagestyle{fancy}
  - \fancyfoot[CO,CE]{\small\emph{SCS training docs (c) 2025 ITU, S7n, CC-BY-SA-4.0}}
  - \fancyfoot[LE,RO]{\thepage}
---
